# sbt-reproducible-builds

[sbt](https://www.scala-sbt.org) plugin to make sbt builds more reproducible.

For general information on 'Reproducible Builds', see https://reproducible-builds.org/

This plugin provides a number of features:

 * Strip 'accidental' sources of nondeterminism (e.g. timestamps) from the packaged jar
 * Produce a ['buildinfo'](https://reproducible-builds.org/docs/recording/) file describing the build environment used and containing a cryptographic hash of the resulting artifacts.
 * Upload this (signed) certification when publishing
 * Upload this (signed) certification to a [reproducible-builds-certification-repository](http://github.com/raboof/reproducible-builds-certification-repository) instance
 * Check your local build against already-uploaded certifications (WiP)

## Usage

### Stripping nondeterminism from artifacts

Then add to your `project/plugins.sbt`:

```
addSbtPlugin("net.bzzt" % "sbt-reproducible-builds" % "0.19")
```

And to `build.sbt`:

```
enablePlugins(ReproducibleBuildsPlugin)
```

The stripped artifact can be found under `target/scala-${scalaBinaryVersion}/stripped/${reproducibleBuildsPackageName}-${version}.jar`.

### Interoperability with other sbt plugins

#### sbt-osgi

As this plugin as well as the sbt-osgi plugin redefine the `packageBin` task, it is necessary to re-apply the plugin settings after the application of the osgi settings. You can find an example under [` src/sbt-test/sbt-reproducible-builds/osgi/build.sbt`](src/sbt-test/sbt-reproducible-builds/osgi/build.sbt).

### Describe your build as a 'buildinfo' certification

You can now generate a signed description of the build environment with the
sbt task `signedReproducibleBuildsCertification`. This certification will
also be included when publishing your project. If you want to disable this,
you can set `publishCertification := false`.

### Sharing certifications

If you are a (3rd-party or 'official') rebuilder, you can use the
'reproducible-builds:publish' task to publish the buildinfo to a
[reproducible-builds-certification-repository](http://github.com/raboof/reproducible-builds-certification-repository) instance.

#### Uploading certifications from Travis

Especially if you're already deploying from Travis, it can be a great start to
publish certifications from Travis as well. For this, you should give Travis
its own gpg key pair to sign those certifications.

An even better way might be to use the key generated by travis for this repository
itself following https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/encryption-keys/

If you want to use your own key, however,
start by generating a keypair with `gpg --gen-key`, naming it something like
"Arnout Engelen (via Travis) <arnout@bzzt.net>". Then export public and private
key with `gpg --export -a "Arnout Engelen (via Travis)" > public.key` and
`gpg --export-secret-key -a "Arnout Engelen (via Travis)" > private.key`.
Now encrypt the private key so only Travis can read it with
`travis encrypt-file .travis/private.key` and follow the instructions to
unencrypt. Finally, `gpg --import private.key public.key` and
`sbt reproducible-builds:publish` to sign and upload the
certification from Travis.

### Checking certifications

Check your certification with other uploaded
certifications with `reproducibleBuildsCheckCertification`

This currently does not work since we are evolving the way we are sharing
certifications.

## Drinking our own champagne

From version 0.3 onwards, `sbt-reproducible-builds` should itself be
reproducible in the sense that building the same git tag should produce the
exact same binary.

When this is not the case, this is to be considered a bug and a bug report with
the binary, the buildinfo and any additional information about any peculiarities of the build system would be
greatly appreciated!
